hi I'm Stephanie jerski of joy baking
calm today we're going to make
buttermilk pancakes these are really
easy to make
you don't need an electric mixer all you
need is two bowls one for the dry
ingredients one for the wet and then you
just mix the two together and you're
done so we'll start with the dry
ingredients in a large bowl I have put
one cup that's a hundred and thirty
grams of white all-purpose flour and the
flour will give us the structure to the
pancakes and to that I'm going to add
one teaspoon of baking powder and a
quarter teaspoon of baking soda and this
will give us light airy pancake the
leavener and a quarter of a teaspoon of
salt that's the flavor and 2 tablespoons
of that's 30 grams of white granulated
sugar and the sugar not only adds
sweetness to the pancakes but it also
gives a makes them moist and it helps
with the Browning so I'm just going to
use a wire whisk or you just use a
rubber spatula and just stir everything
together you want to make sure there's
no lumps and everything's blended okay
and that's it for the dry and then for
the wet try to have everything at room
temperature so take one large egg and
I'm just going to whisk that now the egg
gives a nice richness to the batter it
binds everything together and plus it
helps with the Browning and then to that
I'm going to add three tablespoons it's
about 40 grams of butter that I've
melted and then let cool to room
temperature and your butter adds
moistness and gives it a nice tenderness
and plus of course some flavor that in
and last is one cup that's 240
milliliters of buttermilk and buttermilk
makes as opposed to milk it makes your
pancakes more tender
a little softer now I've used like a
commercially made buttermilk you can
make your own by just taking a cup of
regular milk and adding like a teaspoon
of lemon juice or white vinegar to it
and just let it stand for 10 minutes or
you could use just have this product on
hand I usually have it in the fridge
buttermilk pout powder and then you can
just you don't have to worry about
running out to the store just have it on
hand it tells you on the back of the
container how to use it so that's our
wet ingredients so just make a well in
the center of your dry ingredients and
then add all your wet into the center
there now we want to use a light hand
when we're mixing this because you don't
want a tough pancake so we don't want to
mix it over mix it just enough I will
mix it enough so that all the
ingredients are blended together and
when you're just stir gently and a few
lumps is fine in a pancake batter now
I'm using just a rubber spatula you
could also use a wooden spoon and just
gently stir these have a little more
spongy texture then there's a regular
pancake recipe on the site they uses
milk and the difference is this is a
little more spongy and light both are
good of course the buttermilk adds a
little bit of Tang okay so that's it and
we're done so now to cook your pancakes
I'm using an electric skillet if you
have one of these turn your dial to 350
degrees Fahrenheit that's 180 degrees
Celsius if you don't have this just you
can just use a frying pan on the stove
try to use a heavy pan with a
at surface you don't want any warps in
your pan because then you get uneven
cooking which we don't want and if
you're doing on the stove set your heat
to medium medium-high and what you can
tell your pan is ready when you just
take a little bit of water on your hands
and just drop it on and it kind of
splatter and that's when you know it's
hot enough so if you have to adjust your
heat to get it the right temperature and
you might even have to adjust your heat
as you're cooking the pancake if it's if
it's cooking too fast or too slowly you
can just kind of up or down now I'm
going to just spray with a nonstick
vegetable spray my skillet that kind of
cuts down on your fat if you're worried
about that it's nice and easy to do but
you could use some oil or melted butter
and you could either brush the oil or
butter on with a pastry brush or with a
piece of paper towel and then I'm going
to use just a ladle of course you can
make your pancakes as big or as small as
you want if you don't want if you don't
have a ladle you could just put this in
a large measuring cup and then just pour
it so I'm just going to and give your if
you're going to put a lot of pancakes on
your in your pan make sure you give
enough room for spreading you can see
this batter is really nice and thick
from the buttermilk and I think
depending on the buttermilk you buy some
are thicker now the one I bought was
really quite thick so then that's going
to affect the consistency of the batter
so I'm just um so we could now if you
have a nonstick surface use a spatula
not of stainless steel because you don't
scratch your surface so you cook these
until the tops you'll get lots of
bubbles and when some of the bubbles
start bursting then you'll know you
could also just take your spatula and
kind of just take a peek underneath
because you want the bottom to be golden
Brown and this will take maybe depending
on your heat to three minutes so you can
see the top they're starting to form
some bubbles some of them are even
popping so what you do is I always like
to just put my spatula and just check
and I can see that the bottom is golden
brown so just take your and just flip of
course the more you cook these the
browner and some people like there's
quite some light I kind of like the more
the golden brown a little crisper and
then just flip them and just cook the
other side usually the second side
doesn't take as long plus you will
notice that the bottom side doesn't seem
to brown quite as much as the top and
that's normal okay so pancake done as
you can see the second side you kind of
it's not a solid brown it's kind of
patchy that's how you want it and I have
the platter here now I know the tendency
is to kind of stack them but the problem
with that is if you do that is the
bottom ones tend to get soggy so we
don't want that so try to have a platter
or plate and then you can just space
them flat like this now if you weren't
going to serve these immediately you
could put them in a hundred and
seventy-five degree fahrenheit oven
that's about 80 degrees Celsius and just
put them right on top of your wire rack
and they can stay there 15 20 minutes
and so if I want to do another batch I
would spray again and then just give
your batter a stir
now there's two ways if say you didn't
want to make all of the pancakes you
could just store this batter just cover
it and store it in the fridge for
usually like 24 hours and then just give
it a real good stir of course not it's
not going to be quite as good but it's
still pretty good or you could just bake
off all your pancakes and then just cool
these and you could put them in the
freezer and they'll last for about a
month and then you could either reheat
them in the oven just a moderate oven or
you could just pop them right into your
toaster oven so until next time I'm
Stephanie Jaworski of joy baking calm